Perhaps the implication is that before the Fall animals could talk and socialize, make nations and go to war against the light or dark side. Did the animals really prefer drinking tea and eating cucumber sandwiches instead of eating grass, insects, or other animals? Perhaps that's why Eden was so idyllic? Yes, Adam had his animal friends to help manage the garden. After all he did name all of them. Maybe Adam was like the animals priest and king, making intercession for them before God, just like Jesus does for the Saints. Remember Jesus said 'unless you become like a child you will not enter the Kingdom'. Ahh, I swear there's something nice about childish imaginations ... but enough of that, back to the real deal. 

Is God really saying that the beasts of the fields are intelligent? You might say "He means animal cunning, like how a lioness crouches in the grass and sneaks up on a unsuspecting zebra". It's hard not to break out giggling, imagining how this comparison could be worked out. Imagine the african herbivores chatting about predators. "Well the lion's main weapon is the ambush because of numbers, but the leopard ... man, his brand of stealth is formidable".  


The creationist man, by association, supports a "young earth cosmology" and the evolutionist supports "old earth cosmology". To be accurate, the "old earth cosmology" branch is divided into the secular evolution and intelligent design branches. The former thinks that entropy created life simply because life activity accelerates entropy. Therefore, entropy needs life to support entropy dominance. Sounds like there must be a sinister agency behind this entropy. You're right, it's called Chaos! Haha, a bit a humour helps with this subject. The intelligent-design branch believes that the Lord God of Israel designed and created His ministry of creation first, then by governing version control, he controlled the appearance of natural creature types and kinds. Yes, the Lord God is the Lord of metamorphosis! Meta means "from the other side" and morpho means shape. In other words, God's ministry of creation is always working, virtually changing things that natural humans are oblivious to.

On the other hand, the evolutionist, interprets a Day through the lense of a cosmic creator, that is, a day is as long as it needs to be. Being a Chistian, I expected the evolutionist man to qualify his title, adjusting his base idea from evolution to intelligent-design, but he didn't. However, that is the right name for his scientific study branch, that is, the intelligent-design branch.

There is perhaps even a subtle creationist connotation asserting that God is super-conservative just as they are. But that works for all, It's not surprising that creationist belief is a projection of
They assert that they know the character of God. Why? because God does not change, when He makes something complete and very good, then if it changes it must be due to corruption.
is not interested in metamorphosis of type into subtype into new type. 

governing version control, he controlled the appearance of natural creature types and kinds. Yes, the Lord God is the Lord of metamorphosis! Meta means "from the other side" and morpho means shape. In other words, God's ministry of creation is always working, virtually changing things that natural humans are oblivious to.

Is God really saying that the beasts of the fields are intelligent? You might say "He means animal cunning, like a lioness crouching in the grass sneaking up on unsuspecting wilderbeast". It's hard not to giggle, thinking how this comparison could be worked out. Imagine some african herbivores chatting about predators. "Well the lion's main weapon is the ambush because of numbers, but the leopard ... ugg, he is a deadly night stalker". As a side note about noctural predators, ever wondered why the zebra is marked with black and white stripes? It's is not for daylight hours but for camouflage in the night. You might expect, with there exceptional night vision, leopards would clean up stalking at night, especially when moonlight could reveal their prey. Well the black and white stripes work especially well in the moonlight. Because moonlight casts varying shadows, in that space, a pack of zebras become almost invisible.
