---
layout: post
title:  "The Heavenly Flood"
date:   2022-12-25 00:00:00 -0600
categories: bible exposition
---

<style>
  b1 {
    color:#004687;
  }
  bref {
    color:#004687;
    font-weight:700;
  }
  r1 {
    color: #800020;
  }
  subhead {
    font-weight:900;
    font-size:16pt;
  }
</style>

### **The Majestic and Malevolent Floods**

<bref>Psa 18:4 NIV</bref>
The cords of death entangled me; the torrents of destruction overwhelmed me.

<bref>Psa 18:4 KJV</bref>
The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H5158"><u>H5158</u></a> of ungodly men made me afraid

The Hebrew word for flood <b1>H5158</b1> means “a torrent”
The root verb of <b1>H5158</b1> is <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H5157"><u>H5157</u></a> which means “to get as a possession, acquire, inherit, possess”

What is the “flood”, in the context of this psalm? It is a torrent of destructive, oppressive mental anguish that overtakes the afflicted person. This hateful torment is “inherited”, meaning it was injected by an evil messenger, a demon belonging to evil spiritual forces in the 2nd heavenly realm. The bible calls this domain the Floods. Demons don’t have to inhabit a person just to inject a barrage of malicious thoughts. 

For the saints, we cling to the Holy Spirit. He gives peace that transcends your mind. His Holy water gently overflows, washing our mind, soothing aggravation.

<bref>Psa 18:16 NIV</bref>
He reached down from on high and took hold of me; he drew me out of deep waters.

<bref>Psa 18:16 KJV</bref>
He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H7227"><u>H7227</u></a> waters <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H4325"><u>H4325</u></a>.

The Hebrew word for many <b1>H7227</b1> means =>

{% highlight java %}
¹Transliterated =>
Adjective : rab
Phonetic : rab
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight java %}
¹BSB definition =>
{% endhighlight %}

1. much, many, great
    * abounding in
    * more numerous than
    * abundant, enough
    * great
    * strong
    * greater than
    * much, exceedingly
2. captain, chief

{% highlight java %}
¹Strongs definition =>
{% endhighlight %}

rab, rab; by contracted from <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H7231"><u>H7231</u></a>; abundant (in quantity, size, age, number, rank, quality)
<hr/>
<br/>

David says he was rescued out of many waters. “Many waters” means many separate water streams competing for space, like violent whitewater rapids roaring down a mountain. David explains God directed the rescue from his lofty position above the Flood.

<bref>Psalm 29:3 NIV</bref>
The voice of the LORD is over the waters; the God of glory thunders, the LORD thunders over the mighty waters.

<bref>Psalm 29:3 KJV</bref>
The voice of the LORD is upon the waters: the God of glory thundereth: the LORD is upon many waters.

<bref>Psalm 29:10</bref>
The LORD sits enthroned over the flood <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H3999"><u>H3999</u></a>; the LORD is enthroned as King forever

The Hebrew word <b1>H3999</b1> means “flood, deluge”.
This means that in the 2nd heavenly realm there exists a virtual flood, a virtual deluge.
The root verb is <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H2986"><u>H2986</u></a> which means “to bring, lead, carry, conduct, bear along”.
This is referring to Satanic principalities and powers that ARE the malevolent Flood. Their strategy is to virtually carry people along and lead or incite them to perform some evil business, unless the Holy government of God and Christ intervenes. Without the calming effect of the Majestic Flood, controlled by the Holy Spirit, the whole world would descend into outright anarchy and war. Just like a literal flood that picks up a person and carries them downstream, so does the virtual Flood, by injecting a torrent of evil thoughts into a person’s mind. The effect is more powerful when a multitude or mob are incited to action by an activist campaign.

<bref>Psalm 32:6</bref>
Therefore let all the godly pray to You while You may be found. Surely when great waters rise, they will not come near.
 
<bref>Psalm 42:6-7 BSB</bref>
.<bref>6</bref> O my God, my soul despairs within me. Therefore I remember You from the land of Jordan and the peaks of Hermon—even from Mount Mizar. <bref>7</bref> Deep calls to deep in the roar <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H6963"><u>H6963</u></a> of Your waterfalls; all Your breakers and waves have rolled over me.
 
The Hebrew word <b1>H6963</b1> means “voice, sound, noise”.
Here the psalmist describes how the dark foreboding thought streams of unknown deep waters are a deadly peril. Then he’s attacked by pounding waves that challenge him to fight, flight or fright. 

<bref>Psa 65:7 KJV</bref>
Which stilleth the noise <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H7588"><u>H7588</u></a> of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people.

<bref>Psa 65:7 BSB</bref>
You stilled the roaring <b1>H7588</b1> of the seas, the pounding of their waves, and the tumult of the nations.

The Hebrew word for noise <b1>H7588</b1> means “roar, din, crash, uproar”
The root verb of <b1>H7588</b1> <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H7582"><u>H7582</u></a> means =>
“to crash, make a din, crash into ruins, be in ruins, be desolated”

This explains the motive of the seas, the Flood. That is to surge, crash and overflow the dry land to make it desolate, to ruin the people living in it. Literal land is the container of the seas. In saying “overflow the dry land", the habitable space, I mean the Flood overflows the mind of a person, even of Mankind.

<bref>Psa 93:3-4 NKJV</bref>
.<bref>3</bref> The floods have lifted up, O LORD, the floods have lifted up their voice <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H6963"><u>H6963</u></a>; The floods lift up their waves. <bref>4</bref> The LORD on high is mightier than the noise <b1>H6963</b1> of many waters, than the mighty waves <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H1530"><u>H1530</u></a> of the sea.

Hebrew word <b1>H1530</b1> means “a heap”. This describes the surging action of waves pushing floodwaters higher and higher.

This psalm provides a clue that the Flood is not literal water, saying “the floods have lifted up their voice”. The Flood is personified, describing light and dark angelic bands in the 2nd heaven.

By declaring that the Lord God of Israel is mightier than the Flood, this one implies that there is a permanent struggle between light and dark forces to dominate the world and earthly realm.

<bref>Psa 98:3-5 BSB</bref>
.<bref>3</bref> He has remembered His love and faithfulness to the house of Israel; all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. <bref>4</bref> Make a joyful noise <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H7321"><u>H7321</u></a> to the LORD, all the earth; break forth—let your cry ring out <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H6476"><u>H6476</u></a>, and sing praises! <bref>5</bref> Sing praises to the LORD with the lyre, in melodious song with the harp.

Hebrew word <b1>H7321</b1> means =>

{% highlight java %}
Transliterated =>
Verb : ruwa`
Phonetic : roo-ah'
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight java %}
¹BSB definition =>
{% endhighlight %}

1. to shout, raise a sound, cry out, give a blast
    * a. (Hiphil)
        - to shout a war-cry or alarm of battle
        - to sound a signal for war or march
        - to shout in triumph (over enemies)
        - to shout in applause
        - to shout (with religious impulse)
        - to cry out in distress
    * b. (Polal) 
        - to utter a shout
    * c. (Hithpolel)
        - to shout in triumph
        - to shout for joy
2. (Niphal) destroyed

{% highlight java %}
¹Strongs definition =>
{% endhighlight %}

ruwa`, roo-ah'; a primitive root; **to mar** (especially by breaking); figuratively, to split the ears (with sound), i.e. shout (for alarm or joy): — blow an alarm, cry (alarm, aloud, out), destroy, make a joyful noise, smart, shout (for joy), sound an alarm, triumph.
<hr/>
<br/>

The psalm shows even more words for "making a noise". The theme of this one says "Break out, shout for joy because God has wrought salvation". Look at the Niphal tense that says "destroyed". It agrees with Strongs meaning, to mar. This seems opposite to making a "joyful noise". However, as always with Hebrew verbs, there may one or more actors involved, each identified by the different verb tenses. Raising a shout at the right time might activate God's strong arm of saving Grace. Giving a joyful shout is a powerful weapon that can bring freedom.

<bref>Isa 8:7</bref>
the Lord will surely bring against them the mighty floodwaters of the Euphrates – the king of Assyria and all his pomp. It will overflow its channels and overrun its banks.

This one explains how the Lord uses the Flood to bring judgement.

<bref>Isa 13:4 NIV</bref>
Listen, a noise <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H1949"><u>H1949</u></a> on the mountains, like that of a great multitude! Listen, an uproar among the kingdoms, like nations massing together! The LORD Almighty is mustering an army for war.

Hebrew word <b1>H1949</b1> means => 
“to distract, ring again, make a (great) noise, murmur, roar, discomfit, be moved”

Again this one describes the Lord using the Flood to bring judgement. Although a flood is not mentioned, the majestic Flood is working by massing a great multitude, stirring up an activist campaign, creating an uproar. This shows that both majestic and malevolent Floods can operate in similar ways but with completely opposite motives.

<bref>Jer 47:2 NIV</bref>
This is what the LORD says: "See how the waters are rising from the north and becoming an overflowing torrent. They will overflow the land and its fullness, the cities and their inhabitants. The people will cry out, and all who dwell in the land will wail.

Again, the Lord uses the Flood to bring judgement.

<bref>Eze 31:4 BSB</bref>
The waters made it grow; the deep springs made it tall, directing their streams all around its base and sending their channels to all the trees of the field.

The Lord uses His majestic Flood of light, truth and goodness for nation building purposes.

<bref>Rev 17:1 KJV</bref>
And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials, and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither; I will shew unto thee the judgement of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters

The Revelation explains that the whore of Babylon is a ruler over the malevolent Flood directing campaigns of delusion, deception and idolatry to intoxicate the world and weak Christians, capturing their minds in slavery.

<bref>Rev 17:15 NIV</bref>
Then the angel said to me, “The waters you saw, where the prostitute sits, ARE peoples, multitudes, nations and languages.”

The Lord gives a witness that the malevolent Flood is pervasive and dominant over all carnal people, including fake Christians who are controlled by the Flesh. The malevolent waters ARE peoples, multitudes, nations and languages. They control people groups by controlling their cultural identity. Their customs, religion and language. They control multitudes of people, and are able to dynamically incite an activist campaign, such as the right-wing mob that descended on Washington USA in the 2021 Capitol riot. This is a good example of a spiritual flood that carries people in the direction that it chooses. The flood waters are too swift and strong to gain a foothold, so the mob is carried along powerless to resist.

The other aspect of <b1>Rev 17:15</b1>, is the whore of Babylon. I believe this a personified spiritual city just as Jerusalem is sometimes addressed as a woman. Babylon is the capital city and economy of Sin since the bible directly describes those who worship the whore and by doing her bidding live in luxury. 

<bref>Rev 18:11-15 NIV</bref>
The merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her because no one buys their cargoes anymore — cargoes of gold, silver, precious stones and pearls; fine linen, purple, silk and scarlet cloth; every sort of citron wood, and articles of every kind made of ivory, costly wood, bronze, iron and marble; cargoes of cinnamon and spice, of incense, myrrh and frankincense, of wine and olive oil, of fine flour and wheat; cattle and sheep; horses and carriages; and human beings sold as slaves.
They will say, ‘The fruit you longed for is gone from you. All your luxury and splendor have vanished, never to be recovered.’ The merchants who sold these things and gained their wealth from her will stand far off, terrified at her torment. They will weep and mourn …

### **The Flood of Noah**

The author of this text believes that the historical floodwaters happened. Noah preached that it was coming.

<bref>Prov 3:20 NIV</bref>
by his knowledge the deeps were divided, and the clouds let drop the dew.

<bref>Prov 3:20 KJV</bref>
By his knowledge the depths <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H8415"><u>H8415</u></a> are broken up <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H1234"><u>H1234</u></a>, and the clouds drop down the dew.

The Hebrew word <b1>H8415</b1> means 

{% highlight java %}
¹Transliterated =>
Noun feminine/masculine: thowm; teh-home' or thom
Phonetic: tehAhome'
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight java %}
¹BSB definition =>
{% endhighlight %}

1. deep, depths, deep places, abyss, the deep, sea
    * deep (of subterranean waters)
    * deep, sea, abysses (of sea)
    * primeval ocean, deep
    * deep, depth (of river)
    * abyss, the grave

{% highlight java %}
¹Strongs definition =>
{% endhighlight %}

thowm, teh-home'; or thom, teh-home'; (usually feminine) from <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H1949"><u>H1949</u></a>; an abyss (as a surging mass of water), especially the deep (the main sea or the subterranean water-supply): — deep (place), depth
<hr/>
<br/>

The root word <b1>H1949</b1> means 

{% highlight java %}
¹Transliterated =>
Verb : huwm;
Phonetic : hoom
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight java %}
¹BSB definition =>
{% endhighlight %}

1. to distract, ring again, make a (great) noise, murmur, roar, discomfit, be moved
    * (Qal) to discomfit
    * (Niphal) to be in a stir
2. (Hiphil)
    * to murmur
    * to show disquietude

{% highlight java %}
¹Strongs definition =>
{% endhighlight %}

huwm, hoom; a primitive root (compare <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H2000"><u>H2000</u></a>); to make an uproar, or agitate greatly: — destroy, move, make a noise, put, ring again.
<hr/>
<br/>

The Hebrew word for “break up” <b1>H1234</b1> means 

{% highlight java %}
¹Transliterated =>
Verb : baqa; 
Phonetic : baw-kah'
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight java %}
¹BSB definition =>
{% endhighlight %}

1. to split, cleave, break open, divide, break through, rip up, break up, tear
    * (Qal)
        - to cleave, cleave open
        - to break through, break into
    * (Niphal)
        - to be cleft, be rent open, be split open
        - to be broken into
    * (Piel)
        - to cleave, cut to pieces, rend open
        - to break through, break down
    * (Pual)
        - to be ripped open, be torn open
        - to be rent
        - to be broken into
    * (Hiphil)
        - to break into
        - to break through
    * (Hophal) 
        - to be broken into
    * (Hithpael) 
        - to burst (themselves) open, cleave asunder

{% highlight java %}
¹Strongs definition =>
{% endhighlight %}

baqa, baw-kah; a primitive root; to cleave; generally, to rend, break, rip or open: — make a breach, break forth (into, out, in pieces, through, up), be ready to burst, cleave (asunder), cut out, divide, hatch, rend (asunder), rip up, tear, win.
<hr/>
<br/>

In <b1>Prov 3:20</b1>, the Lord reveals that the original fountains of the Deep were split or divided by ratio, becoming the fountains of the Deep and the Sky. Both are controlled by angels in charge of the foundations of the earth. The Skygate is connected to the natural world and is permanently open, but the Deepgate is apparently reserved for exercising an “End of Days” governmental statute. Without dividing the Deep into lower and upper regions, the clouds and life cycle of the earth could not be achievable. 

<bref>Gen 6:17 NIV</bref>
And behold, I will bring floodwaters upon the earth to destroy every creature under the heavens that has the breath of life. Everything on the earth will perish. 

<bref>Gen 7:19-20 BSB</bref>
.<bref>19</bref> Finally, the waters completely inundated the earth, so that all the high mountains under all the heavens were covered. <bref>20</bref> The waters rose and covered the mountaintops to a depth of fifteen cubits.

<bref>Psalm 104:6 BSB</bref>
You covered it with the deep like a garment: the waters stood above the mountains

The maximum flood depth rose above Mt Everest by a margin of 15 cubits = approx. 20 feet = approx. 7 meters. The average ocean depth is 3.7 kms and Mt Everest is 8.849 kms high. Think about the amount of empty space above sea level up to a height of 8.856 kms above sea level. Consider also that the total volume of water in the oceans and seas is not 3.7 kms x the surface area. Generally, as the sea extends out from the coast, the sea floor gradient is small until the terrain hits a shelf, then the gradient sharply increases. Even if all the ice stored at the poles melted, the total amount of additional water required to flood the earth to a height of 8.856 km is more than the total volume of all the oceans and seas of the earth. 

To eliminate the need for such an enormous megaflood, I suppose the peak elevation of a pre-history version of Mount Everest might have been less than 8.856 kms. God only knows !

However, the bible does actually describe this megaflood water source =>

<bref>Gen 7:11-12 BSB</bref>
.<bref>11</bref> In the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, on the seventeenth day of the second month, all the fountains <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H4599"><u>H4599</u></a> of the great <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H7227"><u>H7227</u></a> deep <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/strongs/H8415"><u>H8415</u></a> burst forth, and the floodgates of the heavens were opened. <bref>12</bref> And rain fell upon the earth for forty days and forty nights.

The Hebrew word for fountain <b1>H4599</b1> means “fountain, spring, well”
The Hebrew word for great <b1>H7227</b1> means “much, many, great in quantity”
The root verb of deep <b1>H1949</b1> means => ”to make an uproar, or agitate greatly”

The root verb says the Deep makes an uproar, and is greatly agitated. What if Noah’s flood was virtually supplied with mega-flood waters through the Deep, the Abyss? The lexicon details show that Abyss is connected to the grave, which is a spiritual subterranean place. In addition to the Skygate that poured down rain for forty days and nights, megaflood waters flowed through the Deepgate, a subterranean interface between heaven and earth. To support this theory, when the flood waters receded, they flowed out directly into the grave, carrying all the souls of those who perished.

<bref>Job 38:8-11 BSB</bref>
.<bref>8</bref> Who enclosed the sea behind doors when it burst forth from the womb, <bref>9</bref> when I made the clouds it's garment and wrapped it in thick darkness, <bref>10</bref> when I fixed limits for it and set its doors and bars in place, <bref>11</bref> and I declared: ‘You may come this far, but no farther; here your proud waves must stop’?

<bref>Prov 8:29 NKJV</bref>
when He assigned to the sea its limit, so that the waters would not transgress His command, When He marked out the foundations of the earth,

<bref>Prov 8:29 NIV</bref>
when he gave the sea its boundary so the waters would not overstep his command, and when he marked out the foundations of the earth.

This tells that the Lord setup the limits for the sea in the beginning. I believe the doors and bars are those floodgates of heaven referred to in <b1>Gen 7:11</b1>. When opened, the mega-flood waters flowed through the Abyss into the oceans, destroying the world. 

<bref>Psa 104:6-9 BSB</bref>
.<bref>6</bref> You covered it with the deep like a garment; the waters stood above the mountains. <bref>7</bref> At Your rebuke the waters fled; at the sound of Your thunder they hurried away. <bref>8</bref> the mountains rose and the valleys sank to the place You assigned for them <bref>9</bref> You set a boundary they cannot cross, that they may never again cover the earth

The waters fled? This is a witness that the origins of Noah's flood are not literal water springs. The origins are angels who control the foundations of the earth. This is God’s government, both light and dark forces competing against each other. They control the powers of natural heaven and earth. Powers that transcend the earthly realm, generating flood waters and disposing of them.

<bref>Jer 5:22 BSB</bref>
Do you not fear Me?” declares the LORD. “Do you not tremble before Me, the One who set the sand as the boundary for the sea, an enduring barrier it cannot cross? The waves surge, but they cannot prevail. They roar but cannot cross it.

So many witnesses about the Flood ! The malevolent Flood roars. It is arrogant and proud. I can imagine it boasting that sin-bound carnal mankind is completely weak and feeble. About ones who profess faith in Jesus but judge people and circumstances according to the Flesh. They are also carnal, weak and feeble.

The Flood is a deadly peril, thus in the beginning God decreed an activity limit so that human existence can continue according to his plan and purpose. But because of Sin, that limit was revoked, causing a temporary end of earthbound life. I repeat, the Flood is a deadly peril. The consequence of being taken away by a raging flood is certain death. 

<bref>2 Thess 2:9-10</bref>
.<bref>9</bref> The coming of the lawless one will be accompanied by the working of Satan, with every kind of power, sign, and false wonder, <bref>10</bref> and with every wicked deception directed against those who are perishing, because they refused the love of the truth that would have saved them.

Is this teaching about the Floods a theological concern? Not primarily. I believe the Lord Jesus wants to broadcast a warning to the church, given that the days of Lawlessness that Paul warned about may have started to appear. Gender identity laws imposed by the political left wing are pointing to lawlessness, because it is attacking the power of common law. They attack the simple stereotype of binary male or female, as though clear and simple is actually stupid or evil Does common law depend on social stereotypes to function? That’s the real question. 

Compare social science with computer science. Artificial intelligence is a relatively new branch of computer science which is strikingly similar in wanting to classify things subjectively not absolutely. It means the baseline for truth is created by the analyst who configures the program. 

I’ll let <a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fuzzy_logic"><u>Wikipedia</u></a> talk about “fuzzy logic” =>

.<r1>Fuzzy logic</r1> is a form of many-valued logic in which the truth value of variables may be any real number between 0 and 1. It is employed to handle the concept of partial truth, where the truth value may range between completely true and completely false. By contrast, in Boolean logic, the truth values of variables may only be the integer values 0 or 1.
<hr/>
<br/>
The big question is the context of AI judgement accuracy. Accuracy may be hard to absolutely define because of realtime computing limitations, so we introduce inaccuracy tolerance? That means defining the consequences of a mistake and the weighting of such a mistake. For example, imagine AI is used in the military to classify “homeland threat” circumstances. What if AI gets it wrong and that mistake escalates to a state of war?

### **The Flood and Baptism**
Another witness that warns about Flood awareness is baptism. The New Testament teaches that a proper water baptism required full submersion in water, based on the definition of the Greek word baptizo. 

<a target="_blank" href="https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/baptize"><u>www.wiktionary.com</u></a> says =>

{% highlight java %}
Verb : βᾰπτῐ́ζω, 
Phonetic: baptízō
{% endhighlight %}

1. to dip, plunge
2. to immerse
3. (passive) to drown, sink (of ships)
4. to get wet, soak
5. to wash, clean with water, clean by dipping or submerging
6. (passive) to bathe
7. to draw water (or other liquid)
8. (Christianity) to baptize

Notice item 3 clearly describes a deadly peril. Others say “plunge”, “immerse” and “submerge” which definitely means under the water. In the Pentecostal and NT tradition, baptism is regarded as a symbolic reference to death, burial and resurrection. Born again from dead, sharing the experience of Jesus Christ. 

Why does water baptism symbolically follow Jesus in being born again? Because the Malevolent Flood is the evil spectre that arranged the Lord’s crucifixion and physical death. When Jesus was arrested in the garden, he entered the flood waters that carried him to Golgotha and the cross of Calvary. Notice how the atmosphere of the Lord’s trial seems very dark and foreboding. Compared to a week prior, the crowd behaves like they’re drunk with wine, swaying in the tide of a dark flood.

Pay tribute to our Lord Jesus, who submitted himself to God’s plan and purpose, knowing that he would be swept away by the raging hateful tyranny of Sin. This is a staggering degree of courage, and similar to the prophet Jonah submitting himself to be thrown into a raging tempest. 

Contrast this with the ministry of Jesus who also gathered large crowds. Wonder what compelled those crowds to come and listen? Some desperately wanted to touch him. That’s the Majestic Flood bringing people into close proximity to the Kingdom of God and the King. By speaking God’s word with His supreme authority, Jesus either quickened or discomforted his audience.

John the Baptist and his preaching, is also the ministry of Christ. About John, Jesus said “Among those born of a woman, none are greater than John, but the least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than John”. What does this mean? Think about John and his devotional life. He’s filled with the Holy Spirit from birth, and was heralded as a prophet from birth. When most young men are playing sports and attending regular school, he’s studying the Torah, praying and seeking God while living in the desert. The Lord’s appraisal of John implies that John was first a worker and second a believer. For the saints who believe first then do work, their attitude says "I can do nothing apart from Him. He is the Vine, I am the branch. According to God’s will, I’m saved for good works. My work flows out of my faith". So there are none greater than John, in the way of righteousness **according to works**.

Since John had faith, he’s saved by his faith, which is good news. One of my favourite bible quotes is John rebuking the Pharisees => “Brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee the coming wrath”. That’s what you call direct and forthright ! John had faith in Jesus, encouraging his followers to pursue Jesus by declaring “behold the Lamb of God!”. In retirement, he didn’t checkout and buy a villa on the beach! He continued witnessing in complete fearless abandonment. Again, like a straight arrow, he says to Herod “you’re living in adultery with your brother’s wife”. This put him in prison and cost him his life. While in prison, he may have had unanswered prayers of deliverance, which caused him to have doubts about Jesus. This case might testify to the power of relentless mental anguish, how it can break a person’s original holy mindset. John’s prison experience was no doubt an opportunity for Satan to assail John with accusations saying “Jesus has abandoned you here to rot in prison”. All the while God had a perfect redemption plan for John. <a target="_blank" href="https://biblehub.com/matthew/27-52.htm"><u>Matt 27:52</u></a> says when Jesus rose from the dead, many saints also rose from the dead in the Jerusalem district. What if our man of the segment, John the Baptist was also raised ?!

<subhead><p>The Pharisees refuse to believe their own scripture</p></subhead>

<bref>John 7:52 NKJV</bref>
They answered and said to him, “Are you also from Galilee? Search and look, for no prophet has arisen out of Galilee.”

<bref>Matt 4:15-16 NIV</bref>
.<bref>15</bref> “Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, the Way of the Sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles— <bref>16</bref> the people living in darkness have seen a great light; on those living in the land of the shadow of death a light has dawned.”

This part is pointing to <a target="_blank" href="https://biblehub.com/isaiah/9-1.htm"><u>Isaiah 9:1-2</u></a> which introduces the Son of David prophecy in verse 7. <a target="_blank" href="https://biblehub.com/matthew/4-12.htm"><u>Matt 4:12</u></a> tells how Jesus started his ministry life in Galilee, according to the God's word. In verse 17, Jesus starts preaching saying “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near”. For jewish people looking for their Saviour, he’s not hidden. In <b1>Isaiah 9:1-7</b1>, the subject is all about Messiah bringing deliverance. Words like “the people living in darkness have seen a great light” are pointing to the real Saviour identity, not just a warrior, but one who is Light. Light that shines in the darkness. 

<subhead><p>Be Flood Aware</p></subhead>

<bref>Psa 124: 1-5 BSB</bref>
.<bref>1</bref> If the LORD had not been on our side— let Israel now declare <bref>2</bref> if the LORD had not been on our side when men attacked us <bref>3</bref> when their anger flared against us, then they would have swallowed us alive, <bref>4</bref> then the floods would have engulfed us, then the torrent would have overwhelmed us, <bref>5</bref> then the raging waters would have swept us away.

In plain and simple terms, this palm describes the motive of the malevolent Flood and describes the power of spiritual weapons. The torrents are actually thoughts of Sin that incite violence and stir up hateful desires. The scene in the natural realm has nothing to do with a literal flood, it may be a scene of violence, wrath and anger. The violence may be virtually inflicted through a hateful person remotely cursing and slandering someone. This creates a torrent of oppressive mental anguish that overtakes the target person. Recall the Lord’s agony in the garden before his arrest. Spiritual anguish so intense that it produced drops of blood.

This psalm describes the experience of our Lord Jesus, willingly captured by a Flood of spiritual hatred and crucified. But <a target="_blank" href="https://biblehub.com/colossians/4-12.htm"><u>Col 2:15</u></a> tells how Jesus, by resurrection power, gloriously defeated this same enemy and inflicted humiliating punishment - Amen !!

The Lord says “Be alert, be wise and always be aware of potential danger”. In the day of Lawlessness, if not restrained by the Holy Spirit, the Flood could also sweep away vulnerable Christians to their death. The culimination of Lawlessness and its political influence is the mark of the beast. Every Christian should be preparing for this day, because it WILL happen. Christian leadership should discreetly organise conferences to foster unity and seek the Lord's vision to fight against that evil spectre. Worship festivals should be organised only when the Lord's plan and purpose is revealed. It's time to act like the Army of the Lord and not the gratefully ignorant people of the Lord.

With this information, this revelation about the Flood, the Lord reveals how incredibly vulnerable, weak and feeble an unsaved carnal man or fake Christian is against the power of Sin. Consider that in Jan 2021, 5 people died in the US <a target="_blank" href="https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/11/us/who-died-in-capitol-building-attack.html"><u>Capitol riot</u></a>, including a Capitol police officer attacked by rioters.


### **The Flood and Exodus**

There’s even more amazing bible accounts about baptism and judgement

<bref>Exo 12:12 BSB</bref>
On that night I will pass through the land of Egypt and strike down every firstborn male, both man and beast, and I will execute judgement against all the gods of Egypt. I am the LORD.

<bref>1 Cor 10:1-4 BSB</bref>
.<bref>1</bref> I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that our forefathers were all under the cloud, and that they all passed through the sea. <bref>2</bref> They were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. <bref>3</bref> They all ate the same spiritual food <bref>4</bref> and drank the same spiritual drink; for they drank from the spiritual rock that accompanied them, and that rock was Christ.

Deliverance out of Egypt required passing under the cloud and through the sea. How does parting the Red Sea explain spiritual deliverance? It represents judgement against the gods of Egypt and points to justification by faith in Christ. The Lord did not lead Israel into the desert of Sinai by the expected land route, He allowed them to be hemmed in by the Red sea. God was setting up Israel’s enemy for judgement. The Red Sea represents the Malevolent Flood opposed to Israel’s exodus and freedom. Parting the sea is a justifying action that says, “I judge in favour of Israel and will now vindicate them”. Israel was already financially awarded “back-pay”. Now at the Red Sea, the Lord blew the oppressor out of the way! Paul says that they all “passed under the cloud and through the sea”. To enter a channel created by two powerful jet streams would have required courage. Imagine the noise of such a jet stream of wind (although being miraculous it might have been quiet, but I like the dramatic version) … hmm what a good movie idea ! Would the wind keep blowing all night? If the water walls collapsed it was certain death. The pillar of cloud or fire was a supernatural witness that God is Israel’s judge and vindicator, pointing to Holy Spirit’s role as Justifier, raising up souls from the dead. The successful passage of Israel through the sea with ALL people accounted for is a mighty miracle. It potentially gave each person a new identity, by the rebirth of that special nation, Israel, loved by God and reserved for himself. This is the food and drink of salvation that Paul refers to.

### **Bibliography**

1. <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com"><u>www.knowing-jesus.com</u></a>
    * strong’s number lexicon provider
2. <a target="_blank" href="https://biblehub.com/"><u>www.biblehub.com</u></a>
    * bible scripture provider
