---
layout: post
title:  "Whoredom?"
date:   2022-12-27 00:00:00 -0600
categories: bible exposition
---

<style>
  b1 {
    color:#004687;
  }
  bref {
    color:#004687;
    font-weight:700;
  }
  r1 {
    color: #800020;
  }
  subhead {
    font-weight:900;
    font-size:16pt;
  }
  cr {
    text-align: center;
  }
</style>

<cr>Copyright</cr>
<cr>Peter A McGill</cr>
<cr>2023</cr>
<hr/>
<br/>

### **Selling your body is whoredom**

The bible has many themes that interweave and one of them is conspiracy. In fact, Satan is the ultimate evil conspirator and adversary of God and his Kingdom. 

The meaning of “conspire” by <a target="_blank" href="www.collinsdictionary.com/conspire"><u>www.collinsdictionary.com</u></a> =>

<r1>Verb</r1>
1. to plan or agree on (a crime or harmful act) together in secret
    * *they conspired to kill the king*
2. to act together towards some end as if by design
    * *the elements conspired to spoil our picnic*
3. to plot (something wrong, evil, or illegal)
    * *they conspired to kill the king*
<br/>

We know that when Satan rebelled against God, he conspired to steal the Lord’s people. Consider that a third of the whole angelic nation is a significant number. On this subject, I heard an interesting sermon, by bible teacher Derek Prince. He says “I can imagine Satan saying to the proud high ranking ones ‘Think about it - are you treated in a manner that fits your true status? Now if I were the Lord, I’d give you more recognition, more respect, more glory’”. 

We know that Satan, a sinister serpent of intrigue, conspired against Adam by manipulating Eve, planting a seed of rebellion. The bible does describe that way of darkness, which is spell-binding to the gullible. 

<bref>Proverbs 9:17 NIV</bref>
Stolen water is sweet, food eaten in secret is delicious

Consider that applied knowledge is power. “Stolen water is sweet” suggests that the good and even righteous goal of getting knowledge (water) justifies any means, even theft. “Food eaten in secret is delicious”. This translates to “executing a devious plan of intrigue brings pleasure and profit”.

Conversely, on the right hand side, Lady Wisdom says =>

<bref>Proverbs 9:5-6 NIV</bref>
.<bref>5</bref> Come eat my food and drink the wine I have mixed. <bref>6</bref> Leave your simple ways and you will live. Walk in the way of understanding. 

Notice that there are two competing sides, preaching to those who pass by. What is the prize? The soul of each convert and disciple is the master’s prize. Knowledge alone does not deliver power to reign in life. Remember that “eating the master’s food” means obeying his voice and executing his work, according to the vision of His plan.

<bref>Proverbs 4:25-27 NIV</bref>
.<bref>25</bref> Let your eyes look straight ahead, fix your gaze directly before you. <bref>26</bref> Make level paths for your feet, take only ways that are firm. <bref>27</bref> Do not turn to the right or the left and keep your foot from evil.

Without an inspired plan to apply the Lord’s knowledge, getting power to reign is like grasping oil. The prize is power to reign in life. The stakes are high. 

The primary asset of a grand plan to reign in life is the master’s arrangement. Thus, power to reign is given by the master. The primary condition for pleasing your master is to work diligently in line with His vision. Remember to stay inside the limits of your domain. If you try to do work outside of your domain, then you’re not walking in the master’s plan. In God’s economy, that’s not a deal breaker, as long as you make the right adjustment. 

<bref>Proverbs 15:3 NIV</bref>
The eyes of the Lord are everywhere keeping watch on the wicked and the good.

Recall that an arrangement means a virtual body, a host for doing work. The will of God is that every person be illuminated by knowing their destiny in Christ Jesus. Those who do submit to Jesus and serve Him, walk in their devine destiny and calling. You might say “what about the Malevolent Flood that dominates the world?” The saints are like boat riders who travel upstream against the Flood. Don’t worry, the standard boat engine is not by rowing with oars. It’s a built-in engine, model G for his Grace. 

The question arises “If God provides his people with careers, what happens in the world?”. The people of the world are oblivious to the economy of Sin. They serve the system of Sin, walking in darkness. So what exactly does “whoredom” mean? It means selling your body in exchange for favours, position, power, money and or influence. This means rejecting your first master’s arrangement and plan by embracing the another master's offering. The trader may or may not realise they are actually forsaking their true calling, since the reason for defecting could be deceptive. The contrary plan is usually a work of intrigue, but might actually be extortion. In the latter case, we are called to stand our ground and God will rescue us out of any perilous situation.

In the way of alternative social science, whoredom means “prostitution of allegiance”, and is associated with politics. In the gospels, Jesus rebuked the Pharisees saying “The harlots and tax collectors are entering the Kingdom ahead of you”. In his mastery of words, Jesus might ironically be probing at what lies hidden in their hearts. These men, he implies, are the greater harlots and traitors, especially the Sadducees. 

To explore this further, let me introduce the term Hegemony.

<r1>Hegemony - synonyms</r1>

```
dominion, supremacy, ascendancy, predominance, primacy, authority, mastery, control, power, sway, rule, sovereignty
```

<a target="_blank" href="www.collinsdictionary.com/hegemony"><u>Collinsdictionary.com</u></a> says =>

```Hegemony``` is a situation in which one country, organisation, or group has more power, control, or importance than others


<a target="_blank" href="www.britannica.com/hegemony"><u>Britannica.com</u></a> says =>

```Hegemony``` is the dominance of one group over another, often supported by legitimising norms and ideas. The term hegemony is today often used as shorthand to describe the relatively dominant position of a particular set of ideas and their associated tendency to become commonsensical and intuitive, thereby inhibiting the dissemination or even the articulation of alternative ideas.

The associated term hegemon is used to identify the actor, group, class, or state that exercises hegemonic power or that is responsible for the dissemination of hegemonic ideas.

Hegemony derives from the Greek term hēgemonia (“dominance over”), which was used to describe relations between city-states. Its use in political analysis was somewhat limited until its intensive discussion by the Italian politician and Marxist philosopher Antonio Gramsci. Gramsci’s discussion of hegemony followed from his attempts to understand the survival of the capitalist state in the most-advanced Western countries. Gramsci understood the predominant mode of rule as class rule and was interested in explaining the ways in which concrete institutional forms and material relations of production came to prominence. The supremacy of a class and thus the reproduction of its associated mode of production could be obtained by brute domination or coercion. Yet, Gramsci’s key observation was that in advanced capitalist societies the perpetuation of class rule was achieved through largely consensual means—through intellectual and moral leadership. Gramsci’s analysis of hegemony thus involves an analysis of the ways in which such capitalist ideas are disseminated and accepted as commonsensical and normal. A hegemonic class is one that is able to attain the consent of other social forces, and the retention of this consent is an ongoing project. To secure this consent requires a group to understand its own interests in relation to the mode of production, as well as the motivations, aspirations, and interests of other groups. Under capitalism, Gramsci observed the relentless contribution of the institutions of civil society to the shaping of mass cognitions. Via his concept of the national-popular, he also showed how hegemony required the articulation and distribution of popular ideas beyond narrow class interests.

<a target="_blank" href="www.vocabulary.com/hegemony"><u>Vocabulary.com says =>

```Hegemony``` is political or cultural dominance or authority over others. The hegemony of the popular kids over the other students means that they determine what is and is not cool.

Hegemony comes from the Greek hegemon "leader." Wealthy lender nations hoping to determine political outcomes and trade decisions have established hegemony over the debtor nations they lend to. As well as the dominance of one group or nation over others, hegemony is also the term for the leading group or nation itself. During the American Revolution, colonists fought to throw off British hegemony.

<a target="_blank" href="www.wikipedia.com/hegemony"><u>Wikipedia.com says</u></a>

```Hegemony``` is the political, economic, and military predominance of one state over other states. In Ancient Greece (8th c. BC – AD 6th c.), hegemony denoted the politico-military dominance of the hegemon city-state over other city-states. In the 19th century, hegemony denoted the "social or cultural predominance or ascendancy; predominance by one group within a society or milieu" and "a group or regime which exerts undue influence within a society".

 …

In Marxist philosophy, Antonio Gramsci defined cultural hegemony as the ruling class's manipulation of the value system and mores of a society, so that the ruling class perspective is the worldview of society; thus, in the relations among the social classes of a society, the term hegemony describes the cultural dominance of a ruling class, which compels the subordination of the other social classes.

<bref>Isa 44:9-11 NIV</bref>
.<bref>9</bref> All who make idols are nothing, and the things they treasure are worthless. Those who would speak up for them are blind; they are ignorant, to their own shame. <bref>10</bref> Who shapes a god and casts an idol, which can profit nothing? <bref>11</bref> People who do that will be put to shame; such craftsmen are only human beings. Let them all come together and take their stand; they will be brought down to terror and shame.

The BSB version of verse 10 says  “Who fashions a god or casts an idol which profits him nothing?” The implications are startling. In terms of an evil device, an idol is an invention that supports an associated profit scheme. Such a scheme is designed to coerce or deceive and intended to generate subscribers who will pay for services rendered. 

Let’s review parts of the explanation of hegemony  =>

Brittanica says => 

<r1><p>Gramsci’s analysis of hegemony thus involves an analysis of the ways in which such capitalist ideas are disseminated and accepted as commonsensical and normal.</p></r1>

Wikipedia says =>

<r1><p>In Marxist philosophy, Antonio Gramsci defined cultural hegemony as the ruling class's manipulation of the value system and mores of a society, so that the ruling class perspective is the worldview of society</p></r1>

Regardless of your political persuasion, Antonio Gramsci’s theory just might be valid, considering the fallout of the 2007-8 financial crisis. The <a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subprime_mortgage_crisis"><u>subprime mortgage crisis</u></a> Wikipedia page presents all the details. This story shows an alarming fact => the ratio of US household debt to disposable personal income rose from 77% in 1990 to 127% by the end of 2007. 

Investopedia explains what subprime means => A subprime mortgage is one that’s normally issued to borrowers with low credit ratings. A prime <a target="_blank" href="https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/conventionalmortgage.asp"><u>conventional mortgage</u></a> isn’t offered, because the lender views the borrower as having a greater-than-average risk of defaulting on the loan.

Apparently the main contributing force of the USFC was **housing speculation** which fueled subprime mortgage investment. This in turn fueled the subprime mortgage-securities and derivatives market. Apparently, the dubious idea of a “subprime mortgage security” was hidden by derivative product complexity. That is, a subprime mortgage is not a safe bet if you’re betting against an inevitable housing market correction. When correction started, it triggered mass loan foreclosures. For subprimes, because the revised value of their house became less than their mortgage loan, people just abandoned their loan repayments. In the movie, The Big Short, a hedge fund broker (played by Christian Bale) invests virtually his whole portfolio on a special security that pays out if there is a mass foreclosure event … in the event of a GFC !! He obviously won on that investment. 

The fallout of the GFC raised concerns about alleged unethical behaviour of investment brokers and managers. Recall that hegemony means “a ruling class that imposes its perspective on society, making it the worldview of society”. In the GFC fallout, you could say the housing market was an idol that promised subscribers a piece of the investment pie, without explaining that “housing speculation” actually means a dishonest valuation of their principal asset. The real problem is a consensus that says “housing speculation is the right economic pattern”. However, the law of supply and demand seems to support an open market, which apparently makes speculation legal.

The other angle of the GFC is how the subprime sector is really an underclass of the ruling class. The ruling class exploited the situation, hiding subprime mortgage risk in corrupt derivatives to make money. The real issue is the huge gap between the knowledge of the ruling class over the underclass. The Spirit of the World is miserably class conscious and will always want to maintain that gap.

What’s alarming is that idolatry has not disappeared since the days of the old testament. GFC insights reveal that it has morphed and evolved as society has evolved. 

<subhead><p>Whoredom versus Idolatry</p></subhead>

<bref>Isa 53:5-6 BSB</bref>
.<bref>5</bref> But He was pierced for our transgressions, He was crushed for our iniquities; the punishment that brought us peace was upon Him, and by His stripes we are healed <bref>6</bref>
We all like sheep have **gone astray, each one has turned to his own way**; and the LORD has laid upon Him the iniquity of us all.

<bref>Matt 6:25 NKJV</bref>
“No one can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon".

The OT biblical account of unfaithful Israel and Judah, presents the narrative of a Husband grieving for 
for his destroyed marriage because his wife is a rogue hypocryte. She is a treacherous actor, giving lip service but no love, no adoration. Whoredom is the root of idolatry, because the greatest act of devotion is allegance to your master, the one you obey. Whoredom points to the most serious failure of mankind. That is, people rejecting God’s plan and purpose, and going their own way. Idolatry is just the alternative work that happens when someone sells their soul to another master. 

<bref>Matt 15:10-14 NKJV</bref>
.<bref>10</bref> When He had called the multitude to Himself, He said to them, “Hear and understand: <bref>11</bref> Not what goes into the mouth defiles a man; but what comes out of the mouth, this defiles a man.” <bref>12</bref> Then His disciples came and said to Him, “Do You know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this saying?” <bref>13</bref> But He answered and said, “Every plant which My heavenly Father has not planted will be uprooted. <bref>14</bref> Let them alone. They are blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind leads the blind, both will fall into a ditch.”

<bref>Matt 16:6 NKJV</bref>
Then Jesus said to them, “Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees.”

<bref>Mark 8:15-21 NKJV</bref>
.<bref>15</bref> Then He charged them, saying, “Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.” <bref>16</bref> And they reasoned among themselves, saying, “It is because we have no bread.” <bref>17</bref> But Jesus, being aware of it, said to them, “Why do you reason because you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive nor understand? Is your heart still hardened? <bref>18</bref> Having eyes, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear? And do you not remember? <bref>19</bref> “Also, when I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets full of fragments did you take up?” And they said, “Seven.” <bref>20</bref> “Also, when I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets full of fragments did you take up?” And they said, “Seven.” <bref>21</bref> So He said to them, “How is it you do not understand?”

<bref>Luke 12:1 BSB</bref>
In the meantime, a crowd of many thousands had gathered, so that they were trampling one another. Jesus began to speak first to His disciples: “Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.

About whoredom and what it looks like, the Pharisees make a classic example. They charged people to flee from idolatry, but as Jesus said “they honour God with their lips, but their hearts are far from him”. Being the original authors of rabbinic law, they enforced their oral law, instead of teaching directly from the word of God.

About leaven, <a target="_blank" href="https://www.dictionary.com/leaven"><u>dictionary.com</u></a> says =>

<r1><p>Noun</p></r1>
* any substance that produces fermentation in dough or batter, such as yeast, and causes it to rise
* a piece of such a substance kept to ferment a new batch of dough
* an agency or **influence** that produces a gradual change

<r1><p>Verb</p></r1>
* to cause fermentation in (dough or batter)
* **to pervade**, causing a gradual change, esp with some moderating or enlivening influence

See the disciples’ journey of learning, as Jesus trained them to guard the Truth. Initially, some were almost defending the Pharisees, saying “Did you know that the Pharisees were offended by your saying?”. Is this attitude one that lends support to corrupt power? It seems those leaders were excellent hypocrites, excellent actors, since some naive hearts were led astray. Some disciples were power focused, saying “Who is the greatest in our company? … I vote for myself !".  In reality, Jesus not only attracted the poor, broken and rejected but also some broken, deluded and falsely ambitious people! But as you can see by the Lord’s progressive teaching, Jesus trained them to recognise hypocrisy. 

About <b1>Mark 8:15-21</b1>. In his question “is your heart still hardened?“, Jesus might be confronting those who envy His power and influence. Think about Judas the traitor and what he wanted. My view is he wanted fame and fortune, instead of love, peace and resurrection life. Being deluded about the Lord's purpose and destiny, Judas sold himself to the enemy. In a similar way of teaching, <b1>James 3:14</b1> says “But if you harbour bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it or deny the truth.” 

To handle this, see how Jesus delivers a special insight about the Kingdom of God, referring to both times He fed thousands with a few loaves and fishes. Let me offer a paraphrase of his sermon. “When resources are lacking, have the right perspective. See that lack is nothing more than a demand for grace, when faith is stirred with boldness. When the demand for grace is greater, the supply of stuff is more plentiful.”

Finally, a question for the reader. Who is that particular king of Israel whose roots are in Amalek?

<bref>1 Kings 21:25 BSB</bref>
Surely there was never one like Ahab, who sold himself to do evil in the sight of the LORD, incited by his wife Jezebel.

King Ahab's life shows that the company you keep is really a success or failure determinant. Jezebel is probably the absolute worst evil human character in the whole bible. Considering that she was the daughter of a Sidonian king, it's interesting that in Deuteronomy Moses defined eastern and northern boundaries of the promised land that included Tyre and Sidon. 

<bref>Deut 1:7-8 BSB</bref>
.<bref>7</bref> Resume your journey and go to the hill country of the Amorites; go to all the neighboring peoples in the Arabah, in the hill country, in the foothills, in the Negev, and along the seacoast to the land of the Canaanites and to Lebanon, as far as the great River Euphrates. <bref>8</bref> See, I have placed the land before you. Enter and possess the land that the LORD swore He would give to your fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and to their descendants after them.

About the unattempted conquest of this northern region. At various bible study moments, I've sought Holy Spirit's counsel about how this conquest campaign failed to even get a mention in the bible. Here's my paraphrase of His answer => "Solomon failed to realise or appreciate that the promised land conquest command was still incomplete. David made an righteous deal with the King of Tyre for supply of cedar timber and skilled workmen. But that alliance was not meant to continue in Solomon's reign. Hiram the king of Tyre was more diligent to understand the north-eastern extent of the promised land. Being aware that the promised land included his land, Hiram strategically made an alliance with Solomon to supply skilled workmen for building the temple. Hiram succeeded in exactly the same challenge that Solomon was charged to address. That is, to claim the promised land. Is there not a God in Israel, who could put his Spirit into Israelite workers like He did for building the tabernable of Moses?". By marrying hundreds of wives, Solomon, the wisest mortal man in history, actually became a fool and brought down disgrace on his name and house. Moses commanded that the king must not create a harem of wives and concubines. Sadly, the life Solomon shows that in the end he acting presumptously which his father warned against.

<bref>Psa 19:13 NKJV</bref>
Keep back Your servant also from **presumptuous sins**; Let them not have dominion over me. Then I shall be blameless, And I shall be innocent of great transgression.

<hr/>
<br/>

### **Bibliography**

1. <a target="_blank" href="https://bible.knowing-jesus.com"><u>www.knowing-jesus.com</u></a>
    * strong’s number lexicon provider
2. <a target="_blank" href="https://biblehub.com/"><u>www.biblehub.com</u></a>
    * bible scripture provider
